Welcome to asynchronous JavaScript.
Let's see what this course has in store for us.
Asynchronous programming is a big topic that might feel overwhelming.
But the goal of this course is that you would be able to work with and
understand existing asynchronous programs and their logic flows,
and that you would feel comfortable writing asynchronous programs
using modern JavaScript syntax and employing best practices.
We'll cover some places where asynchronous flows can get tricky,
so that you're aware of potential issues in your asynchronous code.
We will also go over common interview questions related to asynchronous programming,
so that you are ready for mid-level JavaScript interviews.
This course will cover callbacks, promises,
and async/await syntax for creating asynchronous programs,
and end with a project where you will use
your new asynchronous programming skills to build an interactive racing game.
Here's a breakdown of the course by lesson.
In this course overview lesson,
we will go over the requirements and things you need to know before starting the course,
as well as to give you some resources that might be helpful as you get started.
We will also cover a conceptual introduction to
asynchronous thinking and what it's all about,
and go over some of the benefits you will see in your career and
coding abilities from learning about asynchronous programming.
In the synchronous concepts and callbacks lesson,
we will focus on the basics.
We'll get started by talking about synchronous programs in terms of threads,
and blocking and non-blocking code.
We'll also go over some commonly misunderstood terms
around the topic of asynchronous programming.
For the last half of the lesson,
we'll talk about callbacks and how they can be leveraged to create asynchronous programs.
Once we've done all that,
it will leave you in a great place for getting started with the next lesson, promises.
Promises are where we'll spend the bulk of this course,
since they are the most common form of handling asynchronousity in modern JavaScript.
We'll start off by getting a feel for the syntax and practice some new keywords.
Then we'll see some of the power of promises with promise training.
Once we're familiar with the syntax and have some practice,
we'll talk about the need for promises and how they solved some of
the developer experience issues with callbacks in asynchronous programs.
We will also cover the practical application of promises with fetch,
the modern promise based syntax for Ajax requests.
We will discuss error handling in promise chains and best practices when working
with promises before finishing up the lesson
with an intro to more advanced promise syntax.
The final lesson of this course will be
an introduction to the async/await syntax introduced in ES6.
In reality, this is just some convenient syntax packed around
promises that can help us reason about asynchronous functions in a synchronous way.
In this lesson, we will go over some more synchronous JavaScript syntax with try/catch,
before taking a look at the syntax
of async/await and how you can use it with promise chains.
We will also have some discussion about when you should and shouldn't use
async/await and end the lesson with
error handling and best practices when using async/await.
We will wrap up this course with a fun and
interactive project that will challenge you to understand and complete
some asynchronous flows in an interactive game where a user will
race against other simulated racers across various race tracks.
With that, you'll have completed
the asynchronous JavaScript course and be
ready to start writing your own asynchronous programs.